---
layout: post
title: Week 9, Group Project Update and Jim Hall's Talk 
---

## Jim Hall's Talk 

We started this week with a talk by Jim Hall[https://personal.freedos.org] over Zoom. 
He founded FreeDOS in 1994 and remains active with it as the project coordinator.  It was interesting to hear some of the technologies he used and grew up with such as the Franklin ACE 1000, Apple II, WordPerfect, WordStar, and Shareware. I hadn’t heard of most of these, so searched about them after the talk. This made me realize how little I know about computer history, most of which is only less than 50 years old. Jim also mentioned this while answering one of the questions, saying that he’d like students to explore more about “why things work the way they do” in order to understand limitations and foundations. He gave some examples of projects that cultivate this like building a kernel that runs on an early IBM PC with only 640kB of memory or creating a simple programming language and writing a compiler for it. 

Jim also talked about his motivation and process for developing and releasing FreeDOS distributions. He mentioned the first release was in September 1994 and was followed by fast-paced releases. 

I found his talk very interesting and engaging, and I really especially liked his answers during the q&a part. 

<!--more-->

Prior to the talk, my questions for Jim were slightly more generic like what advice he would give us and what challenges he has faced in his career. However, after listening to his talk I was really curious to understand how he actually went about creating such a low-level technology as an operating system kernel essentially from scratch since the source code for MS-DOS was not publicly available. I posed this question to Jim and he answered it briefly, but I did have some follow-up inquiries. Due to limited time and so that more students can get their questions answered, I decided to forgo them at the time. 

I'll end this section with 2 quotes from Jim Hall that I found particularly moving:  

*“I learned a lot of math by learning how to not do math”* 

*“The fact that I didn’t know what I didn’t know made me unafraid to give it a shot”* 

## Group Project Update 

This week my partner and I met or at least discussed some part of the project every day of the week from Monday-Friday. On Monday, we virtually attended part of the *Hachette v. Internet Archive* court hearing; on Tuesday we attended the weekly OpenLibrary developer call; on Wednesday, we mainly debriefed from the last 2 meetings and planned our upcoming meetings; on Thursday, we meet virtually for our weekly meeting and evaluated the issue Mek sent us over Slack and responded to him and the other maintainer who is the lead on that issue; and on Friday, we commented on the GitHub issue that Mek tagged us in. That was a very quick rundown of our progress this week. Feel free to follow our [live-log](https://github.com/ossd-s23/wiki/wiki/Group_08_OpenLibrary) for more details. My positive feelings for this project continue, and working on this with my partner has been wonderful! 


<!-- make your blog post: reflect on your group work and the recent invited talk
-->