---
layout: post
title: Week 4, Reflection on Browser Extension Project 
---

## Reflection on My Group Project

Overall, I think my team's collaboration on the browser extension project went very well! None of us had known each other prior to working on this project, so it was nice to get to know some peers in the class, Romee and Grace, and build something cool together. I think my teammates and I worked well together and were able to communicate effectively with each other when we ran into issues. Whenever we met on Zoom for meetings, we all had our cameras on and were engaged, which is something that was missing in group work in my prior CS classes. 
During one of the meetings, I had to take the call from a friend's apartment and it was undesirably loud. I apologized to my teammates for the noise and they were very understanding and we adapted to the situation and still got what we needed to get done. 

As mentioned in the prior blog post, my contributions consisted of writing and polishing the readme.md file, creating the discord server as our communication forum, and updating the live log with our meeting notes. Having a thorough live log was nice to refer back to when working independetly as it tracked our progress and listed to-be-done tasks. I feel like I expanded my coding knowledge with this project because I hadn't worked with Javascript or web development tools as much prior. It was a great learning experience reading through the source code of other group projects in the class. And, tt was interesting to see the different coding styles, snytax, and features of Javascript in action such as asynchronous programming. I think it'll take me some more experience to become proficient in Javascript, but I think I'm on the way and am slightly more inclined to pick a FOSS project that uses more of Javascript. 

## Other Team's Projects 

I really enjoyed listening to the presentations and demos all the groups did during class. Personally, in college, I have not done as many presentations in front of an audience as I did in high school or even middle school. I think it was great to rekindle that practice as it is an important skill to be able to communicate technical work to a diverse audience. 
I'm going to list some of my highlights from the groups, but this is not a full list and I will likely add more as I play around with the extensions more. 
- Team 1, [KodeHub](https://github.com/ossd-s23/KodeHub), and Team 4, [Youtube Interface Customizer](https://github.com/ossd-s23/YouTube-Customizer), included a separate wiki/manual with a thorough walkthrough of set-up and features. These were very nicely written out and I will likely refer back to these when I need to create one for a project. I am linking them [here](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1317rfu9BJe0o2EHk82ATdprWFms0UeQ3?usp=sharing#scrollTo=k-fY2N9cwctK) and [here](https://charlie-xiao.github.io/projects/YouTube-Interface-Customizer.html) for future reference. 
- [Youtube Interface Customizer](https://github.com/ossd-s23/YouTube-Customizer) definitely hit it out of the park with their features and design of their project. I think that many of the features are very practical and something I could benefit from. Specifically, I find the features of hiding suggested videos, thumbnails, and customizing the homepage super cool. I think this type of user customization is missing in many products and this is a great example of how this can be implemented for Youtube. I'd be interested to expand this to other websites as well! 
- Team 6, [Brightspace Pdf Viewer](https://github.com/ossd-s23/Brightspace_Pdf_Viewer) included an implementation of the extension with the Chrome browser. 

