---
layout: post
title: Week 12, Where the Rubber Meets the Road -- Patient-Led Innovation  
---

With less than a month left in the Spring 2023 semester, it feels like things are really picking up before they wind down shortly. This week we had our last, I think, invited speaker: Christopher Snider from Tidepool – an open-source and nonprofit organization striving to make diabetes data more "accessible, actionable, and meaningful" for diabetic patients and their clinicians. My group and I made some significant progress this week with our contributions and made a [draft PR](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/pull/7775) for our feature with 2 commits this week and several exchanges with reviewers and the issue lead. 

<!--more-->

## Christopher Snider 
Christopher Snider has been with Tidepool for 6 years and is a *Community and Clinic Success Manager* there. To be honest, I didn't know what this role entailed as I hadn't really heard about it before. But, during his presentation, I got a deeper understanding and realized it was more familiar than I thought. Christopher explained that his duties include community outreach *and* working with current and prospective users ranging from healthcare workers and patients to IT and legal staff to assist with operations and integration of the Tidepool software. As someone with diabetes who actively uses and is passionate about the technology he is advocating for, Christopher seemed like a great, natural fit for the role. 

One thing that stood out to me was Christopher's emphasis that open source does *not* mean not secure. He expanded on this during the q&a portion as well where he said that HIPAA and privacy are like the bogeyman in the healthcare industry and they shouldn't be holding back innovation in health-tech. This sentiment was also echoed by several of the contributors from the Tidepool Loop [video](- https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/opening-the-loop) that we watched. Dr. Lisa Scheifele, Executive Director of Baltimore Underground Science Space (BUGSS), said: “We feel like the more things can be open and accessible, the more interesting and beneficial work is going to happen.” 

I also appreciated the quick demo that Christopher gave of the Tidepool web app. I kind of wish he started off with that instead of doing it in the final minutes of class as I'm sure many of our attention spans had dwindled by then and we weren't able to follow it as well as could have. 

## Challenges with Group Project
This week my partner and I linked a draft PR to the issue we are working on and already had some exchanges with the issue lead and another reviewer. It was an interesting first experience committing code to a large-scale open source project because we had several eyes on our PR and one person's suggestion was nullified by another's suggestion, so my partner and I had to decide which one made more sense to us and ignore the other reviewer's suggestion. 

Another challenge that we're facing is not getting as clear clarification on some of our code questions because the reviewer is also not sure about some of the specifics of some functions from the OpenLibrary source code that we have to use and modify. Also, we were given some incorrect information by one of the reviewers so that blocked us for some time as we attempted to run code we wrote from the wrong file. 

Through the challenges and blockers I think I've learned from the unblocking process and that the path to a solution can be convoluted. 



