---
layout: post
title: Week 7, Group Project Update 
---

We completed installation and set-up of the openlibrary repository using Docker and got the development environments to run locally. We ran into a few issues with this, but we explored the GitHub Issues page and found solutions there that we were able to incorporate and eventually get the environment to run. We also added a remote to our local repository via upstream to keep a connection to the original repository, as we did during our in-class Git activity. 

During our meeting over spring break, we went through the Github code organization and issues page to see where we'd like to contribute. This was helpful to tag team on as we were able to talk through the purposes of each folder in the repo by bouncing ideas off each other and come to a consensus. We're still at this stage and are spending some more time individually looking through the codebase and front/back end architecture. We're also keeping tabs on issue being created and the Slack channel. 

We also found out that the [hearing](https://blog.archive.org/2023/03/17/heres-how-to-participate-in-mondays-oral-arguments/) for Internet Archive's court case, which will heavily impact the future of digital libraries, is happening on Monday 3/20 at 1pm EST. My partner and I are planning to participate by following the live blog and commentary hosted by 3 library and copyright experts and attending the live discussion afterwards. Since the timing clashes with our class and the invited speaker's talk, we plan to tune in via phone to the hearing after class is over. 

Overall, I'm feeling excited about this project and its mission to provide free and open access to education and fight back against for-profit corporations that are stifling educational accessibility. 

## Hopes and Worries 
I talked about this in detail in my previous blog post, so check that out! 



