---
layout: post
title: Week 2, Exploring Codes of Conduct and Browser Extensions 
---

## Part One 
One benefit of having a code of conduct document for an open source project such as [Go](https://go.dev/conduct) is to provide a set of guidelines for people of all backgrounds to read, understand, and apply to all their interactions and contributions related to the project. Since people come from various backgrounds and cultures with different norms for communication and behavior, it is important to establish a common ground for values that unites all people in the community by creating a respectful, inclusive, and productive environment. Having a supportive, welcoming environment is more likely to attract a diversity of people who feel their contributions and involvement would be valued. This is another benefit as there is more strength and creativity in diversity. And a final benefit of a document like this is for conflict resolution. There are various severities of conflict that entail escalating levels of penalization, starting from directly addressing the incident with those involved to writing a complaint to the project stewards to discuss and decide on next steps and necessary repercussions. 

<!--more-->

I think all open-source projects should have a code of conduct document similar to this one to provide a basis for behavior and communication while collaborating and for contact points regarding conduct-related issues. If the team is small enough and it is feasible, I think it could be beneficial to collectively draft the document and discuss what to include if the team is adapting a prewritten version such as the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/) or especially if they are creating their own. Having this discussion at the start of the project could help everyone be on the same page and promote openness to share ideas. 

One difference between the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/) and the [Go code of conduct](https://go.dev/conduct) is that the latter provides a specific set of values called *Gopher values* “to which people in the community should aspire” and some examples to go along with each. These include “be patient”, “be thoughtful”, "be constructive”, and “be responsible”, among others. For the full list, visit this [page](https://go.dev/conduct). I think they may have included this section to create a sense of community behind these *Gopher values* and provide something distinctive the community can easily reference and stand for. 
Another difference is that the Go code of conduct provides a short summary consisting of 4 bullet points at the end of the document. This kind of summary is not include in the Contributor Covenant. I think they may have added this to provide a quick and easy-to-follow summary of the key points as many people may not read the full code of conduct document. 

The code of conduct for Eclipse can be found [here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). Its structure is slightly different than the one for the Go project. Specifically, it starts with the Pledge and not an About section as the Go project does. I think this is actually better because I found the About and Pledge sections in the Go project to be somewhat repetitive. 
The Eclipse project code of conduct provides more examples for positive behaviors and unacceptable behaviors. Specifically, I noticed in the positive section there was slightly more depth such as “actively encouraging all voices” and “if you find yourself dominating a discussion, it is especially important to encourage other voices to join in.” These examples highlight the qualities of selfless and leadership by striving to involve everyone even if that means taking a step back for yourself. 
Finally, Eclipse includes more details for the conflict resolution and enforcement policies topics. It also uniquely includes a section called “No Retaliation” to guarantee individuals are not punished and retaliated against for their reports of code violations. False reports by spite or revenge are also described as a violation and won’t be tolerated. 

## Part Two 
The [code of conduct](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Code_of_Conduct) for the Sugar Labs project is significantly different from that of the Go project. Firstly, it is not as detailed as the Go or Eclipse codes of conduct. It does not include a very thorough description about how to take action on code violations and does not provide a specific contact like an email address that individuals can send issues to. It has values similar to Go’s *Gopher values* such as “Be collaborative” and “Be flexible” as subheadings with short explanations about them. One unique thing it has is a section called “Step down considerately” which briefly describes what someone can do to “minimize disruption” and help others “pick up where \[they\] left off” if they need to discontinue from a project. This is a fairly common phenomenon that is a challenge for collaborative, open-source projects, so it’s good that it is being acknowledged and described here. 

The Sugar Labs code of conduct is based on the [Ubuntu Code of Conduct](https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct) and licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 license. 

## Part Three 
An open source project that I’m interested in is PyTorch. I’ve used this library in several of my CS classes at NYU for deep learning and computer vision applications. The code of conduct for this project is linked [here](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). It follows the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/1/4/code-of-conduct/) verbatim with the exception of the appropriate email address noted in the Enforcement section. 

## Browser Extension Project
We also started on our first group project for this class: creating a browser extension! I have not built browser extensions before but have experience with them from the user side. In class, my group completed the MDN Browser Extensions [tutorial](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions) and accompanying questions for the [activity](https://github.com/joannakl/ossd_materials/blob/master/activities/browser_add-on_activity.md). We also, for the first time, used the live-log to track our progress. We will implement the feedback we received on this portion of the activity, specifically adding more posts about issues, bugs, and fixes that come up while coding or testing our work. Over the weekend, my team and I explored existing [Firefox extensions](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/) for ideas and inspiration for creating our own. We plan to discuss and finalize our extension idea during class tomorrow. 

That’s my update for the second week of class! Thanks for reading:) ~ Riya 
