---
layout: post
title: Week 6, Beginnings of contributing to an Open Source Project  
---

## Exploring Different Open-Source Projects 

Since completing the browser extension project, we've been plunging into large-scale open-source projects and communities. We first worked in groups on the project evaluation [activity](https://github.com/ossd-s23/project-evaluation/blob/main/template_evaluation.md) to evaluate an assigned open-source project. 
My group was assigned Hadoop and [this](https://github.com/ossd-s23/project-evaluation/blob/main/hadoop_evaluation.md) is the evaluation doc we produced. I learned a lot more about Hadoop and its features, which I think was a cool bonus. However, after completing the questions in the activity, it became clear that contributing to this project would be quite challenging and wouldn't be very friendly for beginners. In short, the reasons we concluded this were the following: hardware and architecture omplexity such as 500GB of available storage for data nodes (my computer only has 250GB max) and solid-state drivers (SSDs) `:clown_face:`, a cluster of servers which _may_ be available through the NYU High-Performance Computing lab but still `:grimacing:`, and an understanding of distributed, computational models such as MapReduce. 
On the individual exploration part, I did find some open-source projects that are more appropriate for beginners: MuseScore, OpenFoodFacts, and OpenLibrary. 

<!--more-->

## I'm Excited About... 
Music has had a transformative role in my life and has been with me through the good, bad, and the ugly. I love it because it is such an expansive field and there is always new things to learn and discover. I've always been an avid listener of music(ever since I got a Spotify (premium——aka no ads `:parking:`) account), and first came into my life as a young dancer.  I’ve recently gotten into music tech and production and am teaching myself how to use a DAW, play the piano, and read sheet music. I'm also taking a private voice class here at NYU in my final semester. So, ya, I'm a bit of a music nerd. 

One open-source project that really caught my attention is MuseScore. I've used MuseScore, specifically, [MuseScore.com](https://musescore.com) to find sheet music for singing and learning piano. I downloaded the iOS and macOS app versions and have interacted with them fairly extensively. When I was looking for open-source projects one of the fields I looked into, unsurprisingly, was music. I discovered [muse group](https://mu.se) which is the parent company of many softwares and communities for musicians such as Ultimate Guitar, Audacity, MuseClass, and MuseScore. [MuseScore](https://musescore.org/en) and [Audacity](https://www.audacityteam.org) are both proudly open source. 

A cool timeline for[muse group](https://mu.se)'s history can be found [here](https://mu.se/about). 

I looked mainly into MuseScore and think it would be a great fit for me for the following reasons: it's in the music domain which I <3, it has a good set of beginner-friendly issues, it has an active and engaging community through Discord and Twitter. [Here](https://www.dropbox.com/s/fpke3owoue6vv7q/Idea_1_Palettes_UX_UI.mov?dl=0) is an explainer video by one of the mainters for a potential set of issues that new contributors can work on and implement! 


## Challenges...
## and Overcoming Them 

Updating this after meeting with my group and deciding on our project on 3/6. After going through our project short list and the evals, we decided to go with OpenLibrary as our open source contributing project. Woohoo 
I had attended a community call with OpenLibrary last Tuesday 2/28 and found it to be very welcoming. There were about 12 people and we all intro'd ourselves and the maintainers and older contributors discussed current issues and blockers. There was another undergrad senior there too but from Singapore, so that was cool, and we exchanged contacts. Mek added me to the Slack channel as well which I've been lurking. I hope to introduce myself there soon too and actually be involved there too with other contributors. 
As with embarking on any new journey, I think the hardest part is getting started. For this type of project, I think that entails initial set-up and getting comfortable with the technologies and codebase. Fortunately, their primary programming language is Python which is the PL I've been using the most lately. 
Another challenge I may face is my struggle with self-confidence. Putting myself out there into a community with people that have years of experience on me and making coding pull requests is definitely new and somewhat intimidating territory for me. But, I know I'm resilient and determined and will be able to do it. I'll also lean on my groupmate Sivan and Professor Klukowska if I feel I need support. 

That's all for now, thanks and have a blessed day. ~ Riya  
