---
layout: post
title: Week 11, The Cathedral and the Bazaar and Group Stand-Ups 
---
This week we had 5-min stand-ups for each group on Monday and an extensive discussion on excerpts from Eric Raymond's *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* essay on Wednesday. 

<!--more-->
## *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* discussion 
I found this in-class discussion to be very insightful and enjoyable and a nice change from most of my current and prior CS classes. This seminar-style discussion reminded me of my highschool English and literature classes where we'd have open-ended prompts to opine on and we'd popcorn around the class. The only difference was the rooms in highschool were like a conference room with one long table, so we'd all sit and face each other which made it easier to hold discussions as we could see who's speaking and who all would like to speak. 

In regards to my favorite *lesson* from the essay, it's really hard to pick just one because there were several I had strong feelings about and takeaways from. 

I found the different perspectives brought up by my classmates on the quote *"Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)"* to be quite interesting. I believe a strong computer scientist is one who can gauge and strike a balance between self-developing programs and algorithms and learning from already-existing creations. The feeling of building something on your own without much outside help or resources is personally really satisfying and something I've been trying to do more of lately. I've come to realize that for most of my computer science journey thus far, I've sought out solutions pretty quickly when something doesn't work as expected. If I may defend myself a bit, a main reason is usually because of time constraints; having to submit working code and programs within deadlines for class assignments often undesirably dissuaded me from debugging and brainstorming code myself. However, when I'm working on personal projects, I'm usually more heuristic and independent as deadlines are a bit more flexible and I can give myself more time on something to independently figure it out and learn from the process. The above quote also reminded me of Isaac Newton's famous statement relating to scientific progress: *"If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants."* This quote suggests that utilizing prior work and findings helps us move forward in the present.  

Another lesson I really liked was *"Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging"*. As I brought up in class, I think this is an area almost all companies offering services or products can improve on and be more transparent about. 

This week I read an [article](https://www.businessinsider.com/apple-tim-cook-public-email-starts-day-reading-customer-notes-2023-4) that explained how Tim Cook, the CEO of Apple, starts every day at 5 a.m. by reading emails from customers, saying "I want to stay grounded in terms of what our users are thinking, what they're feeling." What happens after he reads those emails is not super clear, but I respect the message he is sending about the importance of user input. Apparently, Tim Cook and Jeff Bezos–when he was the CEO of Amazon–are one of the few CEOs of large tech companies to have their email addresses open to the public.

In my experience thus far, it hasn't been very convenient to report issues on applications or get direct help from customer support for things. Once one of my social media accounts got hacked and I felt really lost trying to navigate the help center website myself and very rapidly too, as I wanted the hacker to be off my account asap. The resources online eventually led me to regain control of my account but it took at least a stressful hour of work to do so. 
I realized then that apps like Facebook and Instagram don't provide a direct contact or virtual support team for most users and instead they just have a general help center website with faqs and common issues like [this one](https://help.instagram.com) for Instagram and [this one](https://www.facebook.com/help/) for Facebook. After that incident it really clicked that "if you're not paying for the product, you are the product," a comment by Richard Serra in 1973 in regards to the television delivering people (the product) to adverisers through ads. 

The quote also goes one step further than just taking customer feedback, but it suggests treating users as *co-developers*. I think this would be great in an ideal world, but right now we are still a ways away from that. Facebook's [feedback page](https://www.facebook.com/help/127103474099499/?helpref=search&query=feedback&search_session_id=119aa9e1d2a6dd1cfc02cd626848f160&sr=0) states: "We may use feedback or suggestions submitted by the community without any restriction or obligation to provide compensation for them or keep them confidential" and directs to their never-ending "Terms of Service" [page](https://www.facebook.com/terms.php) for more info. This definitely does not appear to be treating users as *co-developers*. 

These are 2 quotes I've explored here, but I think all of them are important or at least invite thought and different perspectives, whether you agree or disagree (strongly or weakly). 

## Stand-Ups 
It was nice to hear quick updates from each group during the stand-ups and get to know what they've been working on for the past few weeks. The range of contribution progress was pretty wide, mostly due to certain projects not having great documentation for set up and new contributors. My partner and I didn't run into too many issues with setting up the development environment, and an issue we did have had been recently reported on GitHub issues and eventually was fixed in the codebase. Additionally, some groups had already made some coding contributions on existing issues while others (like my group) are working more on building out a specific feature for the project. I was really happy to hear that some groups' pull requests were approved and merged already! 
I hope all the groups are able to make good progress and have some meaningful contributions to their projects by the end of the semester. 

## Progress on OpenLibrary 
This week my partner and I continued working on the feature and specifically experimented code for setting session cookies to store whether the user opts into safe mode or not. We made several attempts and were able to get some parts to work and show up but it's still a WIP. We're gonna trying to complete all the steps in the first checkpoint of the [issue](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/issues/7416) for this week. 
