---
layout: post
title: Week 10, High Ten 
---

This week we did our midterm reflections remotely on Monday and then had group-work time on Wednesday in class. I think the reflections went fairly well and it was nice to reflect back on what I've learned and experienced in and out of the class in regards to open source, project development, and coding. I felt like a lot of experiences I could draw from for the questions were things I had written about in the blogs or project evaluations, so that was helpful. One thing I could have done better was spread my time out more. I spent more time on the first 2 questions so felt kinda rushed on the last one... 

In regards to our group project, my partner and I have been improving on our git skills and made our first commit draft on the feature we're working on for OpenLibrary. 

<!--more-->

For the git part, we manually wrote out and ran the commands that are equivalent to the new 'Sync Fork' button on Github that syncs the fork and the upstream repo which likely has had new commits. The commands were `git fetch upstream`, `git pull upstream master`, `git status` (to see what branch we're on and any unstaged/uncommitted changes). During our weekly meeting, we dove into the first parts of the issue and had some pretty "promising progress", as my partner said via text. We found some files where we'd have to add code and were able to add and successfully test via Docker an update we made to the code that appended text about *content moderation* to a privacy settings link. 

There was also a short discussion during the community meeting on Tuesday regarding the judge's decision for the hearing. It was definitely upsetting to learn that the judge sided with the publishers suing OpenLibrary over controlled digital lending (CDL). When I listened in on the hearing, I got a feeling that the judge wasn't very well-versed in technology. One prior [fair use](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fair_use) case that was repeatedly mentioned was [*Authors Guild, Inc. v. HathiTrust*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authors_Guild,_Inc._v._HathiTrust) which ruled that accessibility of digitized books was fair use. From the little research I did into this other case, I didn't see how it was that different from the current OpenLibrary case, so there are probably legal nuances I am not able to pick up on right now. 

Despite this unfavorable ruling, I really felt the resilience and tenacity of the OpenLibrary community to hold their ground and fight for the future of accessibility to educational materials and libraries. 

*As Jason Shultz, a clinical law professor at NYU involved in the case said, "it's going to be the beginning of the story, not the end."*

In regards to my small contributions, I'm excited to have found a new open-source project that seems right up my alley and pretty dope. I've been following OpenAI a lot since it released the oh-so-famous ChatGPT trained on the GPT-3 model. Almost four months later, GPT-4 is now the basis for it with 100 trillion parameters, compared to 174 billion for GPT-3. The project is an open source evaluation framework that can help users understand what the model is capable of and help take it to the next level. Here's the repo: https://github.com/openai/evals. I'm currently still working on getting the build and environment set up and I did successfully create an OpenAI API key which I will need to create evals. 

<!-- 
Some examples that were brought up were [*Capital Records, LLC v. ReDigi Inc.*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitol_Records,_LLC_v._ReDigi_Inc.) about copyright infringement of digital music and [*Authors Guild, Inc. v. HathiTrust*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authors_Guild,_Inc._v._HathiTrust) which ruled that accessibility of digitized books was fair use. 
--> 
