---
layout: post
title: Week 1, Stepping into Open Source
---

## My Prior Experience with and Understanding of Open Source
In my computer science experience thus far, I have used many open source tools and programs, but–until now—I have not contributed to most of them in a significant way. In a psychology class at NYU last year, I edited a Wikipedia page for a patient case study relating to memory as part of an extra credit assignment. Unfortunately, that is the extent to which my open source contributions go as of now; however, I hope to expand my contributions in the coming months through and beyond this course. 

excerpt_separator: <!--more-->

After learning more about open source and its pervasiveness in the computer science field, I feel even more compelled to take this course and contribute to open source and do my small part to give back to the growing community that has provided so many resources I've used and taken for granted. 

When I hear the term “open source”, I think about code that is easily and freely accessible to anyone. Usually, these are large programs or libraries with many contributors with their code posted on a hosting platform like [Github](https://github.com). As we have learned in class, there are different licenses that must meet specific requirements–as outlined in the [OSD](opensource.org/osd)–and be included in the program for it to be open-source. These open source software licenses typically allow for the code to be used, modified, and distributed by anyone. 

This differs from closed source which is much more restrictive in who can access the code and how they can use it. Most companies use this type of closed, proprietary tech stack for their coding. There are several reasons companies may use proprietary technology such as to maintain control and security over its use and prevent competitors from copying or hackers from breaching their source code. This advantage of closed source could also be a fallback of open source because in open source there may not be standards that are strictly followed or a guarantee of activity or quality control which may stall or dwindle down the progress of the project. 

Some advantages of open source include the ability to fairly easily and conveniently connect and collaborate with a diverse community of developers from around the world. There is also much more transparency into the projects and code which allows for a broader range of people to get involved and contribute. 

## Open Source Projects 
### VSCode, spaCy, Git 
I use the VSCode IDE for writing most of my coding programs. It supports many programming languages and has a plethora of extensions that expand its functionality and customizability. It also integrates nicely with Git, another open source software, allowing to easily create and merge branches, commit changes, and make pull requests. Using VSCode has definitely facilitated the incorporation of Git, version control, and code hosting for me as I build out projects, even individually.

While I was working on a capstone project for another CS class, I tested several open-source natural language processing libraries such as [spaCy](https://github.com/explosion/spaCy) and [VADER](https://www.nltk.org/_modules/nltk/sentiment/vader.html). Using VSCode, I was able to fork these public repositories and modify specific parts of the code to create a new program that we could use to analyze sentiments of Amazon reviews. 

### PyTorch and Jupyter Notebook 
I use [PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch), an open-source machine learning framework, for computer vision applications. Specifically, I used PyTorch to build, train, and test neural network models for image classification and object detection. I run PyTorch programs in [Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/about) because Jupyter provides a great interface for computer vision tasks because it enables real-time, embedded image visualizations. Jupyter Notebook is also an open-source platform which supports interactive, web-based data science and scientific computing. 

I am looking forward to learn about and contribute to open source projects and become part of the open source community!!  
Thanks for reading! 
~ Riya 


